>> Nina Zakharenko: Git Show, let's
just look at commits and their contents.
If we want to show what files are changed
in the commit, we can use the stat flag.
It's also helpful to look at
files from another commit.
It we wanted to just briefly look
at a file from another commit,
you can say git show commit and
then colon file.
A surprising amount of developers
that have been using Git for
a while don't know about
the Git Show commands.
They know that for a shared repository,
they can go on GitHub
to look at the commit.
But it's really easy to do it
from the command line too.
You don't have to open a browser and
click around.
It's just all there.
Git Show works on any reference.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And it can also show
the contents of any commit that's been
orphaned.
For example, if we lost a commit after
a rebase, or in a detached head state,
we can still look at it as
long as it's in our history.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Diff is a common tool
that we use as developers when working
on git.
It shows you changes between commits and
between the staging area and
the repository.
It can show you what's
in the working area.
For unstaged changes you
would just do a git diff.
Stage changes, git diff --staged.
A good way to think about it is unstaged
changes are what could be in the next
commit and staged changes are what
will be in the next commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You can also
pass file arguments to diff
to narrow down which file you
wanna look at the diff of.
I saw a great explanation of
diffing using Venn diagrams.
And I wanted to share that with you.
Note that the default syntax of diff
is the same as the two dot notation.
You might have seen the two dot notation
on stack overflow or somewhere else.
But it just means the same thing.
Using a diff is going to
show you between A and B,
is gonna show you of the changes
on branch B, but not on branch A.
So this comment git diff A B will
show you only the blue changes.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It is also
possible to so called diff branches.
We can ask,
what branches are merged with master?
Maybe they can be cleaned up.
We can do that with a merged flag and
we can also ask,
which branches haven't been
merged with a master yet.
Maybe I was working on a feature and
I forgot about it.
I can use this to take a look and
see which of my branches are unmerged.